README.md, before:

# TalkforgeAI - AI-Powered Chatbot Creation Tool

## Overview

TalkforgeAI is an AI-powered chat software that facilitates the creation of personalized chatbots using the ChatGPT
platform. It allows users to tailor the chat experience by creating individual AI profiles, known as Personas, each with
its own personality profile and avatar image. In addition to text input, prompts can be generated via voice input, and
the AI's responses can be delivered through browser-based or Elevenlabs text-to-speech output.

### Prerequisites

- An OpenAI API key is required. To obtain one, visit the [OpenAI website](https://openai.com/) and follow the
  instructions for API key generation.
- For optional Elevenlabs speech output, an API key is also necessary. Please visit
  the [Elevenlabs website](https://elevenlabs.io/) for instructions.

## Features

- Create individual chatbot profiles with custom personalities
- Generate a profile picture for your chatbot right inside the app
- Image generation through DALL-E 2 directly in chat, compatible with both GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 models.
- Access to all relevant GPT models:
    - gpt-4
    - gpt-4-32k
    - gpt-3.5-turbo
    - gpt-3.5-turbo-16k

- Creation of PlantUML diagrams, such as class, sequence, or activity diagrams.
- Graphical enhancement of generated LaTeX code.
- Custom instruction definitions.
- Code highlighting for generated source code.
- Docker container support for simplified deployment.

## Upcoming Features

- Multi-user support with access control for the features of each Persona, allowing for the assignment and sharing of
  Personas among users.
- Image interpretation, initially supported by Huggingface models.
- Reading and evaluating web links.
- Upload of files to be interpreted by the AI (PDF, TXT, etc.)
- Support for DALL-E 3 (as soon as API will be available)
- Memory feature to store critical information in the database and retrieve it as needed, allowing for the persistence
  of information beyond the maximum token limit.
- Function support for tasks such as sending emails, querying calendar data, etc.

## Installation

### Building the Project

- Ensure Java 19 or higher is installed on your system and the JAVA_HOME environment variable ist set correctly.

### Starting the Server

- To run from a JAR file, use the following command with the appropriate API keys and data directory specified:

      java -jar ./talkforgeai-0.1.0.jar --server.port=8090 --openai.api-key=[your OpenAI API Key] --elevenlabs.api-key=[you Elevenlabs API-Key] --talkforgeai.datadir=[your TalkforgeAI data directory]

- Alternatively, use a properties file for configuration:

      java -jar ./talkforgeai-0.1.0.jar --spring.config.additional-location=./talkforgeai.properties

- Available properties:
    - server.port: Port to run the server on. Default is 8090.
    - openai.api-key: OpenAI API key
    - elevenlabs.api-key: Elevenlabs API key
    - talkforgeai.datadir: Directory to store data in
    - logging.level.com.talkforgeai: Log level for TalkforgeAI. Default is INFO.

### Using Docker

- Deploy using Docker with the following command:

      docker run -d -p [your local port]:8090 -e TALKFORGEAI_OPENAI_APIKEY=[your OpenAI API Key] -e TALKFORGEAI_ELEVENLABS_APIKEY=[you Elevenlabs API-Key] talkforgeai/talkforgeai:latest

- If you want to use a local properties file, you can mount it into the container:

      docker run -d -p [your local port]:8090 -v [your local properties file]:/usr/local/talkforgeai/talkforgeai.properties:ro -v C:/Users/jschmitz/DEV/talkforge-data:/data talkforgeai/talkforgeai:latest

- If you want to use a local data directory, you can mount it into the container:

      docker run -d -p [your local port]:8090 -v [your local data directory]:/data talkforgeai/talkforgeai:latest

## Building from Source

- After cloning the repository, building is straightforward with Maven:

        mvn clean package

*Note: Replace placeholder text (e.g., [your OpenAI API Key]) with actual API keys and directory paths as required for
your setup.*

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please read our contributing guidelines for how to proceed.

## License

TalkforgeAI is released under the Apache License 2.0. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.

## Support

For support and queries, please open an issue on the GitHub repository or contact the maintainers directly.

---

This README is a basic guide for getting started with TalkforgeAI. For more detailed documentation, please refer to the
project's documentation site.

Commit message:

Updated README for Assistant API

README.md, after:

# TalkforgeAI - AI-Powered Chatbot Creation Tool

## Overview

TalkforgeAI is an AI-powered chat software that facilitates the creation of personalized chatbots using the OpenAI
Assistant API. It allows users to tailor the chat experience by creating individual AI profiles, known as Personas, each
with its own personality profile and avatar image. In addition to text input, prompts can be generated via voice input,
and the AI's responses can be delivered through browser-based or Elevenlabs text-to-speech output.

### Prerequisites

- An OpenAI API key is required to use the OpenAI Assistant API. To obtain one, visit
  the [OpenAI website](https://openai.com/) and follow the instructions for API key generation.
- For optional Elevenlabs speech output, an API key is also necessary. Please visit
  the [Elevenlabs website](https://elevenlabs.io/) for instructions.

## Features

- Create individual chatbot profiles with custom personalities using the OpenAI Assistant API.
- Generate a profile picture for your chatbot right inside the app.
- Image generation through DALL-E 3 directly in chat, compatible with both GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 models.
- Access to all relevant GPT models:
    - gpt-4
    - gpt-4-32k
    - gpt-4-vision-preview
    - gpt-3.5-turbo
    - gpt-3.5-turbo-16k

- Creation of PlantUML diagrams, such as class, sequence, or activity diagrams.
- Graphical enhancement of generated LaTeX code.
- Custom instruction definitions.
- Code highlighting for generated source code.
- Docker container support for simplified deployment.

## Upcoming Features

- Multi-user support with access control for the features of each Persona, allowing for the assignment and sharing of
  Personas among users.
- Image interpretation, initially supported by Huggingface models.
- Reading and evaluating web links.
- Upload of files to be interpreted by the AI (PDF, TXT, etc.)
- Memory feature to store critical information in the database and retrieve it as needed, allowing for the persistence
  of information beyond the maximum token limit.
- Function support for tasks such as sending emails, querying calendar data, etc.

## Installation

### Building the Project

- Ensure Java 19 or higher is installed on your system and the JAVA_HOME environment variable is set correctly.

### Starting the Server

- To run from a JAR file, use the following command with the appropriate API keys and data directory specified:

      java -jar ./talkforgeai-0.1.0.jar --server.port=8090 --openai.api-key=[your OpenAI API Key] --elevenlabs.api-key=[you Elevenlabs API-Key] --talkforgeai.datadir=[your TalkforgeAI data directory]

- Alternatively, use a properties file for configuration:

      java -jar ./talkforgeai-0.1.0.jar --spring.config.additional-location=./talkforgeai.properties

- Available properties:
    - server.port: Port to run the server on. Default is 8090.
    - openai.api-key: OpenAI API key
    - elevenlabs.api-key: Elevenlabs API key
    - talkforgeai.datadir: Directory to store data in
    - logging.level.com.talkforgeai: Log level for TalkforgeAI. Default is INFO.

### Using Docker

- Deploy using Docker with the following command:

      docker run -d -p [your local port]:8090 -e TALKFORGEAI_OPENAI_APIKEY=[your OpenAI API Key] -e TALKFORGEAI_ELEVENLABS_APIKEY=[you Elevenlabs API-Key] talkforgeai/talkforgeai:latest

- If you want to use a local properties file, you can mount it into the container:

      docker run -d -p [your local port]:8090 -v [your local properties file]:/usr/local/talkforgeai/talkforgeai.properties:ro -v C:/Users/jschmitz/DEV/talkforge-data:/data talkforgeai/talkforgeai:latest

- If you want to use a local data directory, you can mount it into the container:

      docker run -d -p [your local port]:8090 -v [your local data directory]:/data talkforgeai/talkforgeai:latest

## Building from Source

- After cloning the repository, building is straightforward with Maven:

        mvn clean package

*Note: Replace placeholder text (e.g., [your OpenAI API Key]) with actual API keys and directory paths as required for
your setup.*

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please read our contributing guidelines for how to proceed.

## License

TalkforgeAI is released under the Apache License 2.0. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.

## Support

For support and queries, please open an issue on the GitHub repository or contact the maintainers directly.

---

This README is a basic guide for getting started with TalkforgeAI. For more detailed documentation, please refer to the
project's documentation site.
